HDF versions are pretty good about backwards compatibility for simple 
applications like RTP.

The Fortran part of HDF generally needs to be built with the same
Fortran you are using when you link with it.  The HDF distribution
includes very extensive Fortran tests, but they are for a particular
compiler.  So if you build HDF with the Fortran set as g77, which I
think is the default, you would be likely to have problems with say
Absoft or Portland Group.  (More precisely, HDF itself is in C, and
mostly doesn't care what it is linked to; but to make sure it works
with your Fortran, it is safest to do the install that way, as it
will test the compatibility, and whatever Fortran flags are needed
to get things to work will be similar to what you need in linking
applications.)

It is possible that our install trees (at /asl/umbc) would work for 
you.  But it's not too likely, because it's built for Absoft, and 
because you can sometimes have lower-level library problems going 
between different versions of Linux.  In case you want to try it, we 
have put a tarred version in /pub/motteler/HDF4.1r5.tar.gz, 
accessible by anonymous FTP at asl.umbc.edu.  This version was built 
to install in /usr/local, and might not work elsewhere, but it can't 
hurt to try it.

You do not need to be root to download and install HDF for yourself,
in your own user space; I have done that many times to test things.
That way you can build it for whatever Fortran and OS you have.  
The configure scripts in the HDF distribution are pretty smart, but
you do need to tell it where to install itself and what Fortran to
use.
